README.md, before:

# Reusable GitHub Workflows

This repository contains reusable GitHub Actions workflows and composite actions that can be used across multiple projects to centralize CI/CD logic.

## Structure

```
.github/
├── workflows/          # Reusable workflows
│   ├── web-build.yml   # Web application build workflow
│   └── api-build.yml   # API build workflow
└── actions/            # Composite actions
    ├── setup/          # Common setup (Node.js, pnpm, checkout)
    └── install/        # Install dependencies with pnpm
```

## How to Use in Other Projects

### Prerequisites

1. **Repository Access**: The target project must have access to the `sisques-labs/workflows` repository. If it's a private repository, ensure proper permissions are configured.

2. **Project Structure**: Your project should use:
   - `pnpm` as package manager
   - A monorepo structure (optional, but recommended for `app_path` usage)

### Using Reusable Workflows

To use a reusable workflow in another project, create a workflow file in your project's `.github/workflows/` directory and reference the workflow using the `uses` keyword.

**Example: Using the Web Build workflow**

Create `.github/workflows/ci.yml` in your project:

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [main, develop]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main, develop]

jobs:
  build-web:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "My Web App"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
    secrets: inherit # Required if the workflow needs secrets
```

**Key Points:**

- Use `uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main` to reference the workflow
- Replace `@main` with the branch/tag you want to use (e.g., `@v1.0.0` for versioned releases)
- All inputs are passed via the `with:` section
- Use `secrets: inherit` to pass secrets from your repository to the reusable workflow

### Using Composite Actions

You can also use the composite actions directly in your own workflows:

**Example: Using Setup and Install actions**

```yaml
name: Custom Workflow

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  custom-job:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Setup
        uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/setup@main
        with:
          node_version: "24"
          pnpm_version: "latest"

      - name: Install dependencies
        uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/install@main
        with:
          app_path: "apps/web"
          use_filter: "true"
          frozen_lockfile: "true"

      - name: Your custom step
        run: echo "Do something custom here"
```

### Versioning Strategy

- **`@main`**: Use for latest/development version (may have breaking changes)
- **`@v1.0.0`**: Use for stable, versioned releases (recommended for production)
- **`@feature-branch`**: Use for testing new features before merging

**Recommendation**: Pin to a specific version tag for production projects to ensure stability.

### Multiple Apps in Monorepo

If you have multiple apps in a monorepo, you can create separate jobs for each:

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  build-web:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "Web App"

  build-admin:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/admin"
      app_name: "Admin App"

  build-api:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/api-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/api"
      app_name: "API"
```

## Reusable Workflows

### Web Build

Builds a Next.js or web application with optional linting and testing.

**Usage:**

```yaml
name: Web Build

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - "apps/web/**"
    branches: [main, dev]

jobs:
  build:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "Web App"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
```

**Inputs:**

- `app_path` (required): Path to the web app (e.g., `apps/web`)
- `app_name` (optional, default: `"Web App"`): Name of the app for display
- `node_version` (optional, default: `"24"`): Node.js version to use
- `run_lint` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run lint
- `run_test` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run tests
- `build_command` (optional, default: `"build"`): Build command to run (e.g., `build`, `build:prod`)

### API Build

Builds a NestJS or API application with optional linting and testing.

**Usage:**

```yaml
name: API Build

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - "apps/api/**"
    branches: [main, dev]

jobs:
  build:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/api-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/api"
      app_name: "API"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
```

**Inputs:**

- `app_path` (required): Path to the API app (e.g., `apps/api`)
- `app_name` (optional, default: `"API"`): Name of the app for display
- `node_version` (optional, default: `"24"`): Node.js version to use
- `run_lint` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run lint
- `run_test` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run tests
- `build_command` (optional, default: `"build"`): Build command to run (e.g., `build`, `build:prod`)

## Composite Actions

### Setup

Common setup action for repository checkout, Node.js, and pnpm installation.

**Usage:**

```yaml
- name: Setup
  uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/setup@main
  with:
    node_version: "24"
    pnpm_version: "latest"
```

**Inputs:**

- `node_version` (optional, default: `"24"`): Node.js version to use
- `pnpm_version` (optional, default: `"latest"`): pnpm version to use

### Install

Install dependencies using pnpm with optional filter and frozen lockfile handling.

**Usage:**

```yaml
- name: Install dependencies
  uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/install@main
  with:
    app_path: "apps/web"
    use_filter: "true"
    frozen_lockfile: "true"
```

**Inputs:**

- `app_path` (optional, default: `"."`): Path to the app/package (e.g., `apps/web`). Use `"."` for root
- `use_filter` (optional, default: `"false"`): Whether to use filter when installing (only install dependencies for app_path)
- `frozen_lockfile` (optional, default: `"true"`): Whether to use --frozen-lockfile (automatically skipped for dependabot)

## Best Practices

1. **Always use `secrets: inherit`** when calling workflows that require secrets
2. **Use consistent Node.js versions** across your project (default is `24`)
3. **Use install_filter** when you only need dependencies for a specific app/package
4. **Combine workflows** in your project's workflow files for complete CI/CD pipelines

## Example: Complete CI Pipeline

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  build-web:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "Web App"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"

  build-api:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/api-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/api"
      app_name: "API"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
```

## Contributing

This is a centralized repository for reusable workflows. When adding new workflows or actions:

1. Follow the existing structure and naming conventions
2. Use the composite actions (`setup` and `install`) when possible
3. Document all inputs and their defaults
4. Update this README with usage examples

Commit message:

docs: Update README and action.yml to clarify pnpm version handling, including auto-detection from package.json and improved input descriptions for better usability.

README.md, after:

# Reusable GitHub Workflows

This repository contains reusable GitHub Actions workflows and composite actions that can be used across multiple projects to centralize CI/CD logic.

## Structure

```
.github/
├── workflows/          # Reusable workflows
│   ├── web-build.yml   # Web application build workflow
│   └── api-build.yml   # API build workflow
└── actions/            # Composite actions
    ├── setup/          # Common setup (Node.js, pnpm, checkout)
    └── install/        # Install dependencies with pnpm
```

## How to Use in Other Projects

### Prerequisites

1. **Repository Access**: The target project must have access to the `sisques-labs/workflows` repository. If it's a private repository, ensure proper permissions are configured.

2. **Project Structure**: Your project should use:
   - `pnpm` as package manager
   - A monorepo structure (optional, but recommended for `app_path` usage)

### Using Reusable Workflows

To use a reusable workflow in another project, create a workflow file in your project's `.github/workflows/` directory and reference the workflow using the `uses` keyword.

**Example: Using the Web Build workflow**

Create `.github/workflows/ci.yml` in your project:

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [main, develop]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main, develop]

jobs:
  build-web:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "My Web App"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
    secrets: inherit # Required if the workflow needs secrets
```

**Key Points:**

- Use `uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main` to reference the workflow
- Replace `@main` with the branch/tag you want to use (e.g., `@v1.0.0` for versioned releases)
- All inputs are passed via the `with:` section
- Use `secrets: inherit` to pass secrets from your repository to the reusable workflow

### Using Composite Actions

You can also use the composite actions directly in your own workflows:

**Example: Using Setup and Install actions**

```yaml
name: Custom Workflow

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  custom-job:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Setup
        uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/setup@main
        with:
          node_version: "24"
          # pnpm_version is optional - will auto-detect from package.json if not specified

      - name: Install dependencies
        uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/install@main
        with:
          app_path: "apps/web"
          use_filter: "true"
          frozen_lockfile: "true"

      - name: Your custom step
        run: echo "Do something custom here"
```

### Versioning Strategy

- **`@main`**: Use for latest/development version (may have breaking changes)
- **`@v1.0.0`**: Use for stable, versioned releases (recommended for production)
- **`@feature-branch`**: Use for testing new features before merging

**Recommendation**: Pin to a specific version tag for production projects to ensure stability.

### Multiple Apps in Monorepo

If you have multiple apps in a monorepo, you can create separate jobs for each:

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  build-web:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "Web App"

  build-admin:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/admin"
      app_name: "Admin App"

  build-api:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/api-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/api"
      app_name: "API"
```

## Reusable Workflows

### Web Build

Builds a Next.js or web application with optional linting and testing.

**Usage:**

```yaml
name: Web Build

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - "apps/web/**"
    branches: [main, dev]

jobs:
  build:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "Web App"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
```

**Inputs:**

- `app_path` (required): Path to the web app (e.g., `apps/web`)
- `app_name` (optional, default: `"Web App"`): Name of the app for display
- `node_version` (optional, default: `"24"`): Node.js version to use
- `run_lint` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run lint
- `run_test` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run tests
- `build_command` (optional, default: `"build"`): Build command to run (e.g., `build`, `build:prod`)

### API Build

Builds a NestJS or API application with optional linting and testing.

**Usage:**

```yaml
name: API Build

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - "apps/api/**"
    branches: [main, dev]

jobs:
  build:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/api-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/api"
      app_name: "API"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
```

**Inputs:**

- `app_path` (required): Path to the API app (e.g., `apps/api`)
- `app_name` (optional, default: `"API"`): Name of the app for display
- `node_version` (optional, default: `"24"`): Node.js version to use
- `run_lint` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run lint
- `run_test` (optional, default: `true`): Whether to run tests
- `build_command` (optional, default: `"build"`): Build command to run (e.g., `build`, `build:prod`)

## Composite Actions

### Setup

Common setup action for repository checkout, Node.js, and pnpm installation.

**Usage:**

```yaml
# Auto-detect pnpm version from package.json (recommended)
- name: Setup
  uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/setup@main
  with:
    node_version: "24"

# Or specify pnpm version explicitly
- name: Setup
  uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/setup@main
  with:
    node_version: "24"
    pnpm_version: "9.0.0"
```

**Inputs:**

- `node_version` (optional, default: `"24"`): Node.js version to use
- `pnpm_version` (optional, default: `""`): pnpm version to use. If empty, will auto-detect from `package.json` `packageManager` field

### Install

Install dependencies using pnpm with optional filter and frozen lockfile handling.

**Usage:**

```yaml
- name: Install dependencies
  uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/actions/install@main
  with:
    app_path: "apps/web"
    use_filter: "true"
    frozen_lockfile: "true"
```

**Inputs:**

- `app_path` (optional, default: `"."`): Path to the app/package (e.g., `apps/web`). Use `"."` for root
- `use_filter` (optional, default: `"false"`): Whether to use filter when installing (only install dependencies for app_path)
- `frozen_lockfile` (optional, default: `"true"`): Whether to use --frozen-lockfile (automatically skipped for dependabot)

## Best Practices

1. **Always use `secrets: inherit`** when calling workflows that require secrets
2. **Use consistent Node.js versions** across your project (default is `24`)
3. **Use install_filter** when you only need dependencies for a specific app/package
4. **Combine workflows** in your project's workflow files for complete CI/CD pipelines

## Example: Complete CI Pipeline

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  build-web:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/web-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/web"
      app_name: "Web App"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"

  build-api:
    uses: sisques-labs/workflows/.github/workflows/api-build.yml@main
    with:
      app_path: "apps/api"
      app_name: "API"
      node_version: "24"
      run_lint: true
      run_test: true
      build_command: "build"
```

## Contributing

This is a centralized repository for reusable workflows. When adding new workflows or actions:

1. Follow the existing structure and naming conventions
2. Use the composite actions (`setup` and `install`) when possible
3. Document all inputs and their defaults
4. Update this README with usage examples
